Add updated documentation (#109)
openshift/aws-account-operator: README.md

# AWS-ACCOUNT-OPERATOR

## General Overview

This operator will be responsible for creating and maintaining a pool of AWS accounts. The operator will create the initial setup and configuration of the those accounts, IAM resources and expose credentials for a IAM user with enough permissions to provision a 4.0 cluster.

> The operator is deployed to an openshift cluster. It will create a pool of AWS accounts and secrets containing IAM credentials inside of a namespace. The operator will then wait for a accountClaim to be created in any namespace. It will then tie that accountClaim to an account and credentials previously created, and it will put required infromation into the namespace where the accountClaim was created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The operator is deployed to an OpenShift cluster in the `aws-account-operator` namespace. 
```

I removed the rest as its redundant with line 15.

> On our hive clusters there is a namespace called `aws-account-operator`. This is where the aws-account-operator runs and where the account CRs and the IAM user secrets are created.

Reviewer: I think this line can be removed (assuming my suggestion above and below in the Requirements section are accepted)

> On our hive clusters there is a namespace called `aws-account-operator`. This is where the aws-account-operator runs and where the account CRs and the IAM user secrets are created.

Author: ```suggestion
```

> When a cluster is requested from hive it will create a accountClaim whose name will be the requested clusters name. This will be put into a unique namespace for that cluster specified in the accountClaim. This will trigger the creation of secrets with data from one of the accounts in the `aws-account-operator` namespace that has not yet been used. This information will be used by hive to provision the resources required to bulid the request cluster on the supplied aws-account. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Workflow
First, an AcccountPool must be created to specify the number of desired accounts to be ready. The operator then goes and creates that number of accounts. 
When a [Hive](https://github.com/openshift/hive) cluster has a new cluster request, an AccountClaim is created with the desired name of the cluster in a unique namespace. The operator links the AccountClaim to an Account in the pool, and creates the required k8s secrets, placing them in the AccountClaim's unique namespace. The AccountPool is then filled up again by the operator.  Hive then uses the secrets to create the AWS resources for the new cluster. 
```

For more information on how this process is done look at the controllers section. 

> ## Requirements

Reviewer: IMOP, this section should go above the Workflow section I suggested above.

> The operator requires a secret named `aws-account-operator-credentials` containing credentials to the AWS payer account you wish to create accounts in. The secret should contain credentials for an IAM user in the payer account with the data fields `aws_access_key_id` and `aws_secret_access_key`. The user should have the following IAM permissions:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The operator requires a secret named `aws-account-operator-credentials` in the `aws-account-operator` namespacce, containing credentials to the AWS payer account you wish to create accounts in. The secret should contain credentials for an IAM user in the payer account with the data fields `aws_access_key_id` and `aws_secret_access_key`. The user should have the following IAM permissions:
```

        }
    ]
}

```

## 1.3. Workflow

First, an AcccountPool must be created to specify the number of desired accounts to be ready. The operator then goes and creates that number of accounts. 

> When a [Hive](https://github.com/openshift/hive) cluster has a new cluster request, an AccountClaim is created with the desired name of the cluster in a unique namespace. The operator links the AccountClaim to an Account in the pool, and creates the required k8s secrets, placing them in the AccountClaim's unique namespace. The AccountPool is then filled up again by the operator.  Hive then uses the secrets to create the AWS resources for the new cluster. 

Reviewer 2: Maybe this is a little more clear? "an AccountClaim is created with the name equal to the desired name of the cluster in a unique workspace" Also "and created the required k8s secrets containing the AWS credentials in the aws-account-operator namespace and the unique cluster namespace for hive to use during provisioning" 

Maybe with the rewording you can get rid of the last sentence?

> For more information on how this process is done look at the controllers section.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information on how this process is done, please refer to the controllers section.  
```

## 1.4. Testing your AWS account credentials with the CLI

The below commands can be used to test payer account credentials where we create new accounts inside the payer accounts organization. Once the account is created in the first step we wait until the account is created with step 2 and retrieve its account ID. Using the account ID we can then test our IAM user has sts:AssumeRole permissions to Assume the OrganizationAccountAccessRole in the new account. The OrganizationAccountAccessRole is created automatically when a new account is created under the organization.

1. `aws organizations create-account --email "username+cli-test@redhat.com" --account-name "username-cli-test" --profile=orgtest`
2. `aws organizations list-accounts --profile=orgtest | jq '.[][] | select(.Name=="username-cli-test")'`
3. `aws sts assume-role --role-arn arn:aws:iam::<ID>:role/OrganizationAccountAccessRole --role-session-name username-cli-test --profile=orgtest`

# 2. The Custom Resources

## 2.1. AccountPool CR 

> The AccountPool CR holds the information about the available number of accounts that can be claimed for cluster provisioning

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The AccountPool CR holds the information about the available number of accounts that can be claimed for cluster provisioning.
```

```yaml
apiVersion: aws.managed.openshift.io/v1alpha1
kind: AccountPool
metadata:
  name: example-accountpool
  namespace: aws-account-operator

>   selfLink: /apis/aws.managed.openshift.io/v1alpha1/namespaces/aws-account-operator/accountpools/example-accountpool

Reviewer: Food for thought: Should we give an example of a CR anyone can create, or give the CR as it looks after creation (as it is here)?

Author: The example CR's anyone can deploy are inside of the deploy directory, but in the future we should call this out in the docs 

> Food for thought: Should we give an example of a CR anyone can create, or give the CR as it looks after creation (as it is here)?

They are already present in the deploy directory, but we should note that in the doc some where. Maybe the next PR?

Reviewer: The metadata is messy and distracts from the point of the CR imo. Each CR example should Name and Namespace, plus example spec. Maybe status.

Reviewer 2: Yes I think the example here should contain a CR that you can apply not one that has been applied. It'd be confusing to the user to see fields that don't exist in the examples.

  uid: 9979786a-a8cb-11e9-a2a3-2a2ae2dbcce4
spec:
  poolSize: 50
status:

>   claimedAccounts: 1946

Reviewer: lol

  poolSize: 50
  unclaimedAccounts: 50
```

## 2.2. Account CR

> The Account CR holds the details about the account that was created , whether it is ready to be claimed, and whether it has been claimed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Account CR holds the details about the AWS account that was created, where the account is in the process of becoming ready, and whether its linked to an AccountClaime, i.e. claimed. 
```

  namespace: aws-account-operator
  ownerReferences:
  - apiVersion: aws.managed.openshift.io/v1alpha1
    blockOwnerDeletion: true
    controller: true
    kind: AccountPool
    name: example-accountpool
    uid: 9979786a-a8cb-11e9-a2a3-2a2ae2dbcce4
  resourceVersion: "49984188"
  selfLink: /apis/aws.managed.openshift.io/v1alpha1/namespaces/aws-account-operator/accounts/osd-{accountName}
  uid: a07a6867-9dac-11e9-b4bb-0e6ed767b7c0
spec:
  awsAccountID: "0000000000"
  claimLink: example-link
  iamUserSecret: osd-{accountName}-secret
status:
  claimed: true
  conditions:
  - lastProbeTime: 2019-07-03T16:14:50Z
    lastTransitioNTime: 2019-07-03T16:14:50Z
  	message: Attempting to create account
 	  reason: Creating
 	  status: "True"
 	  type: Creating
  - lastProbeTime: 2019-07-03T16:18:55Z
    lastTransitioNTime: 2019-07-03T16:18:55Z
    message: Account pending AWS limits verification
    reason: PendingVerification
    status: "True"
    type: PendingVerification
  - lastProbeTime: 2019-07-05T13:19:32Z
    lastTransitioNTime: 2019-07-05T13:19:32Z
    message: Account ready to be claimed
    reason: Ready
    status: "True"
    type: Ready
  state: Ready

>   supportCaseID: case-000000000-muen-2019-000000000000

Reviewer 2: Same here, if we want to show the status I think we should call it out in a separate section discussing the accounts status since its important.

```

## 2.3. AccountClaim CR

> The AccountClaim CR holds the required data for cluster provisioning to build the cluster 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The AccountClaim CR links to an available account and stores the name of the associated secret with AWS credentials fort that account.. 
```

kind: AccountClaim
metadata:
  creationTimestamp: 2019-07-16T13:52:02Z
  generation: 2
  labels:
    api.openshift.com/id: 00000000000000000000
    api.openshift.com/name: example-link
  name: example-link
  namespace: {NameSpace cluster is being built in}
  resourceVersion: "54324077"
  selfLink: /apis/aws.managed.openshift.io/v1alpha1/namespaces/uhc-staging-16toh05i9h8ook5d7ej4al7ejec17rug/accountclaims/razevedo-test2
  uid: b7113d4a-a8cb-11e9-a2a3-2a2ae2dbcce4
spec:
  accountLink: osd-{accountName} (From AccountClaim)
  aws:
    regions:
    - name: us-east-1
  awsCredentialSecret:
    name: aws
    namespace: {NameSpace cluster is being built in}
  legalEntity:
    id: 00000000000000
    name: {Legal Entity Name}
status:
  conditions:
  - lastProbeTime: 2019-07-16T13:52:02Z
    lastTransitionTime: 2019-07-16T13:52:02Z
    message: Attempting to claim account
    reason: AccountClaimed
    status: "True"
    type: Unclaimed
  - lastProbeTime: 2019-07-16T13:52:03Z
    lastTransitionTime: 2019-07-16T13:52:03Z
    message: Account claimed by osd-creds-mgmt-fhq2d2
    reason: AccountClaimed
    status: "True"
    type: Claimed
  state: Ready

> ```

Reviewer 2: Same here as the account review above.

# 3. The controllers

## 3.1. AccountPool Controller

> The accountpool-controller is triggered by an accountpool CR or an account CR. It is responsible for generating new account CRs. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The accountpool-controller is triggered by an accountpool CR or an account CR. It is responsible for filling the Acccount Pool by generating new account CRs. 
```

> The accountpool-controller is triggered by an accountpool CR or an account CR. It is responsible for filling the Acccount Pool by generating new account CRs. 

Reviewer 2: "is triggered by a create or change to the"

It looks at the accountpool CR *spec.poolSize* and it ensures that the number of unclaimed accounts matchs the number of the poolsize. If the number of unclaimed accounts is less then the poolsize it creates a new account CR for the account-controller to process.

### 3.1.1. Constants and Globals
```

> emailID = "osd-creds-mgmt"

Reviewer: This will also be used for account name. A small summary of what each const or global is used for may be helpful

Author: I agree , but I think we should put a global section in the next refactor

Reviewer 2: This documentation is about the current state not the next refactor. We should have a description of each constant.

```

> ### 3.1.2. Status

Reviewer 2: This could be an output of the entire status object?

Updates accountPool cr 
```
  claimedAccounts: 4
  poolSize: 3
  unclaimedAccounts: 3
```

*claimedAccounts* are any accounts with the `status.Claimed=true`
*unclaimedAccounts* are any accounts with `status.Claimed=false` and `status.State!="Failed"`
*poolSize* is the poolsize from the accountPool spec

> ### 3.1.3. Metrics

Reviewer: Thinking about this, it may be good to remove the metric definitions from each controllers section and just move it at a generic `metrics` section. The metrics themselves should be agnostic from what controller they are updated in, so a single section of explanation and reference will make it clearer.

Author: I agree with this as well. For the next refactor

Reviewer 2: Again lets not talk about the next refactor, will this be part of the constants/global refactor or the refactoring of the EC2 instance status loop or this a separate metrics refactor? Its gets a bit confusing :slightly_smiling_face:

We should give a little more detail here around how the metrics are updated for each controller.

Updated in the accountPool-controller

```
MetricTotalAccountCRs
MetricTotalAccountCRsUnclaimed
MetricTotalAccountCRsClaimed
MetricTotalAccountPendingVerification
MetricTotalAccountCRsFailed
MetricTotalAccountCRsReady
MetricTotalAccountClaimCRs

```

## 3.2. Account Controller

> The account-controller is triggered by an account CR. It is responsible for following behaviors

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The account-controller is triggered by an account CR. It is responsible for following behaviours:
```

> The account-controller is triggered by an account CR. It is responsible for following behaviours:

Reviewer 2: "Is triggered by creating or changing an account CR"

If the *awsLimit* set in the constants is not exceeded
1. Creates a new account in the organization belonging to credentials in secret `aws-account-operator-credentials` 

> 2. Configure Users from *iamUserNameUHC* and *iamUserNameSRE*

Reviewer 2: Configures two AWS IAM users using *iamUserNameUHC* and *iamUserNameSRE* as their respective usernames

Reviewer 2: *iamUserNameUHC* is used by Hive to provision clusters

*iamUserNameSRE* is used to generate Federated console URL

    * Creates IAM user in new account 
    * Attaches Admin policy
    * Generates a secret access key for the user 
    * Stores user secret in a AWS secret

> 3. Creates STS CLI Credentials for SRE

Reviewer 2: Creates STS CLI tokens
Creates Federated webconsole URL using the *iamUserNameSRE* user

4. Creates and Destroys EC2 instances
5. Creates aws support case to increase account limits

### 3.2.1. Additional Functionailty 

* If `status.RotateCredentials == true` the account-controller will refresh the STS Cli Credentials

> * If the account `status.State == "Creating"` and the account is older then the *createPendTime* constant the account will be put into a `failed` state

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If the account's `status.State == "Creating"` and the account is older then the *createPendTime* constant the account will be put into a `failed` state
```

> * if the account `status.State == AccountReady && spec.ClaimLink != ""` it sets `status.Claimed = true`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If the account's `status.State == AccountReady && spec.ClaimLink != ""` it sets `status.Claimed = true`
```

> ### 3.2.2. Constants and Globals

Reviewer 2: Can we add descriptions for all of these?

Author: I think we should but in the next refactor. I'd rather get this merged and put tickets in to update sections that may need updating or need additional information

// AccountPending indicates an account is pending
AccountPending = "Pending"
// AccountCreating indicates an account is being created
AccountCreating = "Creating"
// AccountFailed indicates account creation has failed
AccountFailed = "Failed"
// AccountReady indicates account creation is ready
AccountReady = "Ready"
// AccountPendingVerification indicates verification (of AWS limits and Enterprise Support) is pending
AccountPendingVerification = "PendingVerification"
// IAM Role name for IAM user creating resources in account
accountOperatorIAMRole = "OrganizationAccountAccessRole"

var awsAccountID string
var desiredInstanceType = "m5.xlarge"
var coveredRegions = []string{
	"us-east-1",
	"us-east-2",
	"us-west-1",
	"us-west-2",
	"ca-central-1",
	"eu-central-1",
	"eu-west-1",
	"eu-west-2",
	"eu-west-3",
	"ap-northeast-1",
	"ap-northeast-2",
	"ap-south-1",
	"ap-southeast-1",
	"ap-southeast-2",
	"sa-east-1",
}
```

### 3.2.3. Spec

Updates the Account CR

```
spec:
  awsAccountID: "000000112120"
  claimLink: "claim-name"
  iamUserSecret: accountName-secret
```

*awsAccountID* is updated with the account ID of the aws account that is created by the account controller

> *claimLink* holds the name of the accountClaim that has claimed this accountCR

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*claimLink* holds the name of the accountClaim that has claimed this account CR
```

> *iamUserSecret* holds the iam user credentials that is created by the account controller

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*iamUserSecret* holds the name of the secret containing IAM user credentials for the AWS account
```

### 3.2.4. Status

> Updates the Account CR

Reviewer 2: Again maybe include the surrounding `status: {}`

```
claimed: false
conditions:
- lastProbeTime: 2019-07-18T22:04:38Z
  lastTransitioNTime: 2019-07-18T22:04:38Z
  message: Attempting to create account
  reason: Creating
  status: "True"
  type: Creating
rotateCredentials: false
state: Failed
supportCaseID: "00000000"
```

> *state* can be any of the account states defined in the constants

Reviewer 2: I think we can better label the constants, might be hard for an outsider to know which is a "state"

*claimed* is true if `currentAcctInstance.Status.State == AccountReady && currentAcctInstance.Spec.ClaimLink != "`

> *rotateCredentials* when true rotates the temporary credentials on the next run

Reviewer 2: updated by the secretwatcher pkg which will set the bool to true triggering an reconcile of this controller to rotate the STS credentials.

*supportCaseID* is the ID of the aws support case to increase limits
*conditions* indicates the last state the account had and supporting details

### 3.2.5. Metrics

Update in the account-controller
```
MetricTotalAWSAccounts
```

## 3.3. AccountClaim Controller

> The accountClaim-controller is triggered when an accountClaim is created in any namespace.It is responsible for following behaviors

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The accountClaim-controller is triggered when an accountClaim is created in any namespace. It is responsible for following behaviours:
```

> 1. Sets account `spec.ClaimLink` to the name of the accountClaim

Reviewer: 0. Finds an unclaimed account

Reviewer 2: The logic has changed now with the account reuse @rogbas could add some color here.

Author: we should either omit it or keep it as it and make another PR with the updates I believe

2. Sets accountClaim `spec.AccountLink` to the name of an unclaimed Account 
3. Creates a secret in the accountClaim namespace that contains the credentials tied to the aws account in the accountCR
4. Sets accountClaim `status.State = "Ready"` 

> ### 3.3.1. Constants and Globals

Reviewer 2: Again descriptions for these would be great

Author: @jharrington22 do you mind putting a suggestion with that these are used for I am not super familiar with the claim controller

```
AccountClaimed          = "AccountClaimed"
AccountUnclaimed        = "AccountUnclaimed"
awsCredsUserName        = "aws_user_name"
awsCredsAccessKeyId     = "aws_access_key_id"
awsCredsSecretAccessKey = "aws_secret_access_key"
```

### 3.3.2. Spec

Updates the accountClaim CR
```
spec:
  accountLink: osd-{accountName} 
  aws:
    regions:
	- name: us-east-1
  awsCredentialSecret:
	 name: aws
     namespace: {NameSpace}
   legalEntity:
	 id: 00000000000000
	 name:{Legal Entity Name}
```

> *awsCredentialSecret* holds the name and namespace of the credentials created for the accountClaim

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*awsCredentialSecret* holds the name and namespace of the secret with the credentials created for the accountClaim
```

### 3.3.3. Status

> Updates the accountClaim CR

Reviewer 2: `status: {}`

```
conditions:
  - lastProbeTime: 2019-07-16T13:52:02Z
    lastTransitionTime: 2019-07-16T13:52:02Z
	message: Attempting to claim account
	reason: AccountClaimed
	status: "True"
	type: Unclaimed
  - lastProbeTime: 2019-07-16T13:52:03Z
    lastTransitionTime: 2019-07-16T13:52:03Z
	message: Account claimed by osd-creds-mgmt-fhq2d2
	reason: AccountClaimed
	status: "True"
	type: Claimed
  state: Ready
```

*state* can be any of the ClaimStatus strings defined in accountclaim_types.go
*conditions* indicates the last state the account had and supporting details

### 3.3.4. Metrics

Updated in the accountClaim-controller
```
MetricTotalAccountClaimCRs
```

# 4. Special Items in main.go

> * Initailzes a watcher that will look at all the secrets in the accountCRNamespace and if it exceeds the const `secretWatcherScanInterval` it will set the corresponsing accountCR `status.rotateCredentials = true`

Reviewer 2: accountCRNamespace? spaces?

the `secretWatcherScanInterval` just set this the interval at which the secret watcher will look for secrets that are expiring. See the logic for when we renew these secrets here https://github.com/openshift/aws-account-operator/blob/master/pkg/credentialwatcher/secretwatcher.go#L85
